Update to the decorators guide (#2545)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-decorators.md

import airflow_decorators_traditional_mixing from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-decorators/airflow_decorators_traditional_mixing.py';
import airflow_decorators_sdk_example from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/airflow-decorators/airflow_decorators_sdk_example.py';

> The _TaskFlow API_ is a functional API for using decorators to define DAGs and tasks, which simplifies the process for passing data between tasks and defining dependencies. You can use TaskFlow decorator functions (for example, `@task`) to pass data between tasks by providing the output of one task as an argument to another task. Decorators are a simpler, cleaner way to define your tasks and DAGs and can be used in combination with traditional operators.

Author: ```suggestion
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The _TaskFlow API_ is a functional API for using decorators to define DAGs and tasks, which simplifies the process for passing data between tasks and defining dependencies. You can use TaskFlow decorator functions (for example, `@task`) to pass data between tasks by providing the output of one task as an argument to another task. Decorators are a simpler, cleaner way to define your tasks and DAGs and can be used in combination with traditional operators.
```

🤦 that was me, sorry

```python
# definition of the decorator function
def multiply_by_100_decorator(decorated_function):
    def wrapper(num1, num2):
        result = decorated_function(num1, num2) * 100
        return result

    return wrapper

# definition of the `add` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def add(num1, num2):
    return num1 + num2

# definition of the `subtract` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def subtract(num1, num2):
    return num1 - num2

# calling the decorated functions
print(add(1, 9))  # prints 1000
print(subtract(4, 2))  # prints 200
```

In the context of Airflow, decorators contain more functionality than this simple example, but the basic idea is the same: the Airflow decorator function extends the behavior of a normal Python function to turn it into an Airflow task, task group or DAG.

## When to use the TaskFlow API

The purpose of the TaskFlow API in Airflow is to simplify the DAG authoring experience by eliminating the boilerplate code required by traditional operators. The result can be cleaner DAG files that are more concise and easier to read.

> In general, whether you use the TAskFlow API is a matter of your own preference and style. In most cases, a TaskFlow decorator and the corresponding traditional operator will have the same functionality. You can also [mix decorators and traditional operators](#mixing-decorators-with-traditional-operators) within a single DAG.

Author: ```suggestion
In general, whether you use the TAskFlow API is a matter of your own preference and style. In most cases, a TaskFlow decorator and the corresponding traditional operator will have the same functionality. You can also [mix decorators and traditional operators](#mixing-taskflow-decorators-with-traditional-operators) within a single DAG.
```

In the context of Airflow, decorators contain much more functionality than this simple example, but the basic idea is the same: the Airflow decorator function extends the bevhavior of a normal Python function to turn it into an Airflow task, task group or DAG.

```python
# definition of the decorator function
def multiply_by_100_decorator(decorated_function):
    def wrapper(num1, num2):
        result = decorated_function(num1, num2) * 100
        return result

    return wrapper

# definition of the `add` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def add(num1, num2):
    return num1 + num2

# definition of the `subtract` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def subtract(num1, num2):
    return num1 - num2

# calling the decorated functions
print(add(1, 9))  # prints 1000
print(subtract(4, 2))  # prints 200
```

> 

Author: Thank you! 😊

In the context of Airflow, decorators contain much more functionality than this simple example, but the basic idea is the same: the Airflow decorator function turns a normal Python function into an Airflow task, task group or DAG.

```python
# definition of the decorator function
def multiply_by_100_decorator(decorated_function):
    def wrapper(num1, num2):
        result = decorated_function(num1, num2) * 100
        return result

    return wrapper

# definition of the `add` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def add(num1, num2):
    return num1 + num2

# definition of the `subtract` function decorated with the `multiply_by_100_decorator`
@multiply_by_100_decorator
def subtract(num1, num2):
    return num1 - num2

# calling the decorated functions
print(add(1, 9))  # prints 1000
print(subtract(4, 2))  # prints 200
```

> ## When to use Airflow decorators

Reviewer: Do you think we should change this to "When to use the TaskFlow API" since we're changing the context of the guide a bit? I think if we're going to mention TaskFlow API more explicitly up front, it also makes sense to talk about it more throughout.

> ## When to use Airflow decorators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to use The TaskFlow API
```

> The purpose of decorators in Airflow is to simplify the DAG authoring experience by eliminating the boilerplate code required by traditional operators. The result can be cleaner DAG files that are more concise and easier to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the TaskFlow API in Airflow is to simplify the DAG authoring experience by eliminating the boilerplate code required by traditional operators. The result can be cleaner DAG files that are more concise and easier to read.
```

> In general, whether to use decorators is a matter of developer preference and style. In most cases, a decorator and the corresponding traditional operator will have the same functionality. You can also easily [mix decorators and traditional operators](#mixing-decorators-with-traditional-operators) within your DAG if your use case requires that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, whether to use the TAskFlow API is a matter of developer preference and style. In most cases, a TaskFlow decorator and the corresponding traditional operator will have the same functionality. You can also easily [mix decorators and traditional operators](#mixing-decorators-with-traditional-operators) within your DAG if your use case requires that.
```

> ## How to use Airflow decorators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to use the TaskFlow API
```

> Airflow decorators were introduced as part of the TaskFlow API, which also handles passing data between tasks using XCom and inferring task dependencies automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TaskFlow API allows you to write your Python tasks with decorators and handles passing data between tasks using XCom and inferring task dependencies automatically.
```

    ```

- For any decorated function in your DAG file, you must call them so that Airflow can register the task or DAG. For example `taskflow()` is called at the end of the DAG above to call the DAG function. Every task defined using decorators has to be called as shown in the code snippet below. If you call the same task multiple times and do not override the `task_id`, multiple tasks will be created in the DAG with automatically generated unique task IDs by appending a unique number to the end of the original task id (e.g. `say_hello`, `say_hello__1`, `say_hello__2` etc). 

    ```python
    # task definition
    @task
    def say_hello(dog):
        return f"Hello {dog}!"

    ### calling the task 4 times, creating 4 tasks in the DAG
    # this task will have the id `say_hello` and print "Hello Avery!"
    say_hello("Avery")
    # this task will have the id `greet_dog` and print "Hello Piglet!"
    say_hello.override(task_id="greet_dog")("Piglet")
    # this task will have the id `say_hello__1` and print "Hello Peanut!"
    say_hello("Peanut")
    # this task will have the id `say_hello__2` and print "Hello Butter!"
    say_hello("Butter")
    ```

> - You can decorate a function that is imported from another file as shown in the code snippet below:

Author: Aaaah Laura told me about that and I forgot, thanks for catching it and reminding me! :)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The decorated version of the DAG eliminates the need to explicitly instantiate the PythonOperator, has much less code and is easier to read. Notice that it also doesn't require using `ti.xcom_pull` and `ti.xcom_push` to [pass data between tasks](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md). This is all handled by the TaskFlow API when you define your task dependencies with `store_data(process_data(extract_bitcoin_price()))`.

Here are some other things to keep in mind when using decorators:

- You must call all decorated functions in your DAG file so that Airflow can register the task or DAG. For example, `taskflow()` is called at the end of the previous example to call the DAG function. 

> - When you define a task, the `task_id` defaults to the name of the function you decorated. If you want to change this behavior, you can pass a `task_id` to the decorator as shown in the `extract` task example. Similarly, other [BaseOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/baseoperator/index.html#airflow.models.baseoperator.BaseOperator) task-level parameters, such as retries or pools, can be defined within the decorator:

Author: ```suggestion
- When you define a task, the `task_id` defaults to the name of the function you decorated. If you want to change this behavior, you can pass a `task_id` to the decorator as shown in the `extract` task example. Similarly, other [BaseOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/_api/airflow/models/baseoperator/index.html#airflow.models.baseoperator.BaseOperator) task-level parameters, such as `retries` or `pool`, can be defined within the decorator:
```

        my_function()
    ```
    
    This is recommended in cases where you have lengthy Python functions since it will make your DAG file easier to read.

> - You can assign the output of a called decorated task to a Python object to be passed as an argument into another decorated task. This is helpful when the output of one decorated task is needed in several downstream functions and to make DAGs with complicated dependencies more legible. 

Author: Hmm... that slightly changes the meaning. 
When the output of a decorated task is needed in several downstream functions assigning it to an object is actually the only way to do that without creating several task copies. The legibility part was referring to complex dependencies, but I think I can just remove `as it makes the DAG more legible` here to make it work :)

    
    # you can assign the output of a decorated task to a Python object
    my_fruits = get_fruit_options()
    eat_a_fruit(my_fruits)
    gift_a_fruit(my_fruits)
    ```

Get more examples on how to use Airflow task decorators in this [Astronomer webinar](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/writing-functional-dags-with-decorators/) and this Apache Airflow [TaskFlow API tutorial](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial/taskflow.html).

### Mixing TaskFlow decorators with traditional operators

If you have a DAG that uses `PythonOperator` and other operators that don't have decorators, you can easily combine decorated functions and traditional operators in the same DAG. For example, you can add an `EmailOperator` to the previous example by updating your code to the following:

<CodeBlock language="python">{airflow_decorators_traditional_mixing}</CodeBlock>

Note that when adding traditional operators, dependencies are still defined using bit-shift operators.

You can pass information between decorated tasks and traditional operators using [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md). See the tabs below for examples.

> <Tabs

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this is another scenario where I think it's better to not use tabs. A user won't know which of these works / looks best for them if they're just starting out, so why hide the options? I think it would be better to use level 4 headers here instead, especially because the content in each tab is pretty short.

    defaultValue="two-flow"
    groupId="mixing-decorators-with-traditional-operators"
    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow to TaskFlow', value: 'two-flow'},

>         {label: 'TaskFlow to Traditional operator', value: 'flow-traditional'},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        {label: 'TaskFlow to traditional operator', value: 'flow-traditional'},
```

        {label: 'Traditional operator to TaskFlow', value: 'traditional-flow'},

>         {label: 'Traditional operator to Traditional operator', value: 'two-traditional'},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        {label: 'Traditional operator to traditional operator', value: 'two-traditional'},
```

```python
@task
def get_23_TF():
    return 23

def plus_10_traditional(x):
    return x + 10

plus_10_task = PythonOperator(
    task_id="plus_10_task",
    python_callable=plus_10_traditional,
    op_args=[get_23_TF()]  # note that op_args expects a list as an input
)

# plus_10_task will return 33
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="two-traditional">

For the sake of completeness the below example shows how to use the output of one traditional operator in another traditional operator by accessing the `.output` attribute of the upstream task. The dependency has to be defined explicitly using bit-shift operators.

```python
def get_23_traditional():
    return 23

def plus_10_traditional(x):
    return x + 10

get_23_task = PythonOperator(
    task_id="get_23_task",
    python_callable=get_23_traditional
)

plus_10_task = PythonOperator(
    task_id="plus_10_task",
    python_callable=plus_10_traditional,
    op_args=[get_23_task.output]
)

# plus_10_task will return 33

# when only using traditional operators, define dependencies explicitly
get_23_task >> plus_10_task
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info

> If you want to access any XCom that is not the returned value an operator, you can use the `xcom_pull` method inside a function, see [how to access ti / task_instance in the Airflow context guide](airflow-context.md#ti--task_instance) for an example. Traditional operators can also pull from XCom using [Jinja templates](templating.md) in templateable parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to access any XCom that is not the returned value from an operator, you can use the `xcom_pull` method inside a function, see [how to access ti / task_instance in the Airflow context](airflow-context.md#ti--task_instance) for an example. Traditional operators can also pull from XCom using [Jinja templates](templating.md) in templateable parameters.
```

:::

## Astro Python SDK decorators

> The [Astro Python SDK](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-sdk) provides decorators and modules that allow data engineers to think in terms of data transformations rather than Airflow concepts when writing DAGs. The goal is to allow DAG writers to focus on defining *execution* logic in SQL and Python without having to worry about orchestration logic or the specifics of underlying databases. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Astro Python SDK](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-sdk) provides decorators and modules that let you write data pipelines in terms of data transformations rather than Airflow concepts. You can focus on defining *execution* logic in SQL and Python without having to worry about orchestration logic or the specifics of underlying databases. 
```

```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="two-traditional">

For the sake of completeness the below example shows how to use the output of one traditional operator in another traditional operator by accessing the `.output` attribute of the upstream task. The dependency has to be defined explicitly using bit-shift operators.

```python
def get_23_traditional():
    return 23

def plus_10_traditional(x):
    return x + 10

get_23_task = PythonOperator(
    task_id="get_23_task",
    python_callable=get_23_traditional
)

plus_10_task = PythonOperator(
    task_id="plus_10_task",
    python_callable=plus_10_traditional,
    op_args=[get_23_task.output]
)

# plus_10_task will return 33

# when only using traditional operators, define dependencies explicitly
get_23_task >> plus_10_task
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info

If you want to access any XCom that is not the returned value an operator, you can use the `xcom_pull` method inside a function, see [how to access ti / task_instance in the Airflow context guide](airflow-context.md#ti--task_instance) for an example. Traditional operators can also pull from XCom using [Jinja templates](templating.md) in templateable parameters.

:::

> ## Astro Python SDK decorators

Reviewer: What do you think about removing most of this section, and just pointing to other SDK docs/tutorials? Maybe just a few sentences to state what the project is, that it contains decorators, and a code snippet with `@transform` or something like that, instead of a full DAG? When we originally included this full thing here the SDK was super new and we didn't have as many resources available for it.

        my_function()
    ```
    
    This is recommended in cases where you have lengthy Python functions since it will make your DAG file easier to read.

> - You can assign the output of a called decorated task to a Python object to be passed as an argument into another decorated task. This is helpful when the output of one decorated task is needed in several downstream functions, as it makes the DAG more legible. 

Author: ```suggestion
- You can assign the output of a called decorated task to a Python object to be passed as an argument into another decorated task. This is helpful when the output of one decorated task is needed in several downstream functions. 
```

        print(f"I'm eating a {list[index]}!")

    @task 
    def gift_a_fruit(list):
        index = random.randint(0, len(list) - 1)
        print(f"I'm giving you a {list[index]}!")
    
    # you can assign the output of a decorated task to a Python object
    my_fruits = get_fruit_options()
    eat_a_fruit(my_fruits)
    gift_a_fruit(my_fruits)
    ```

View more examples on how to use Airflow task decorators in the [Astronomer webinars](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/writing-functional-dags-with-decorators/) and the Apache Airflow [TaskFlow API tutorial](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial/taskflow.html).

## Mixing TaskFlow decorators with traditional operators

If you have a DAG that uses `PythonOperator` and other operators that don't have decorators, you can easily combine decorated functions and traditional operators in the same DAG. For example, you can add an `EmailOperator` to the previous example by updating your code to the following:

<CodeBlock language="python">{airflow_decorators_traditional_mixing}</CodeBlock>

Note that when adding traditional operators, dependencies are still defined using bit-shift operators.

> You can pass information between decorated tasks and traditional operators using [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md). See the following tabs for examples.

Author: ```suggestion
You can pass information between decorated tasks and traditional operators using [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md). See the following sections for examples.
```

The code snippet below shows how to use the `@aql.transform` and `@aql.dataframe` decorators to create transformation tasks. 

```python
# the @aql.transform decorator allows you to run a SQL query on any number of tables
# and write the results to a new table
@aql.transform
def join_orders_customers(filtered_orders_table: Table, customers_table: Table):
    return """SELECT c.customer_id, customer_name, order_id, purchase_date, amount, type
    FROM {{filtered_orders_table}} f JOIN {{customers_table}} c
    ON f.customer_id = c.customer_id"""

# the @aql.dataframe decorator allows you to use pandas and other Python libraries
# to transform relational data and write the results to a new table
@aql.dataframe
def transform_dataframe(df: pd.DataFrame):
    purchase_dates = df.loc[:, "purchase_date"]
    print("purchase dates:", purchase_dates)
    return pd.DataFrame(purchase_dates)

# the decorated functions can be used as tasks in a DAG, writing ELT/ETL logic in 
# a functional style

> join_orders_customers(filter_orders(orders_data), customers_table)

Author: ```suggestion
join_orders_customers(filter_orders(filtered_orders_table), customers_table)
```

```

> The Astro Python SDK offers much more functionality that greatly simplifies DAG authoring, for example a decorator to load files from object storage directly into a relational table while inferring its schema. To learn more about the Astro Python SDK, check out: 

Author: ```suggestion
The Astro Python SDK offers much more functionality that greatly simplifies DAG authoring, for example an operator to load files from object storage directly into a relational table while inferring its schema. To learn more about the Astro Python SDK, check out: 
```

- TaskGroup decorator (`@task_group()`), which creates a [TaskGroup](task-groups.md)
- Task decorator (`@task()`), which creates a Python task
- Python Virtual Env decorator (`@task.virtualenv()`), which runs your Python task in a [virtual environment](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/running-airflow-tasks-in-isolated-environments/)
- Docker decorator (`@task.docker()`), which creates a [DockerOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-docker/versions/latest/modules/DockerOperator) task
- [Short circuit decorator](airflow-branch-operator.md#taskshortcircuit-and-shortcircuitoperator) (`@task.short_circuit()`), which evaluates a condition and skips downstream tasks if the condition is False
- [Branch decorator](airflow-branch-operator.md#taskbranch-and-branchpythonoperator) (`@task.branch()`), which creates a branch in your DAG based on an evaluated condition
- Kubernetes pod decorator (`@task.kubernetes()`), which runs a [KubernetesPodOperator](kubepod-operator.md) task
- [Sensor decorator](what-is-a-sensor.md#sensor-decorator) (`@task.sensor()`), which turns a Python function into a sensor. This sensor was introduced in Airflow 2.5.

> - [Astro Python SDK decorators](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-sdk), which simplify writing ETL/ELT DAGs

Author: ```suggestion
- [Astro Python SDK decorators](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-sdk), which simplify writing ETL/ELT DAGs.
```

3. Transform the data by pivoting using Python. Pivoting is notoriously difficult in Snowflake, so you seamlessly switch to Pandas. In this task you specify an `output_table` that you want the results stored in.
4. Append the results to an existing reporting table using the `append` function. Because you pass the results of the previous function (`aggregated_data`) to the `append_data` parameter, the SDK infers a dependency between the tasks. You don't need to explicitly define the dependency yourself.

By defining your task dependencies when calling the functions (for example, `cleaned_data = clean_data(combined_data)`), the Astro Python SDK takes care of passing all context and metadata between the tasks. The result is a DAG where you accomplished some tricky transformations without having to write a lot of Airflow code or explicitly transition between SQL and Python.

> ## List of available Airflow decorators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Available Airflow decorators
```
